.\" $OpenBSD$
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2026 Dick Olsson <dick@aglim.se>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: July 23 2026 $
.Dt OPENHVF 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm openhvf
.Nd QEMU virtual machine harness for OpenBSD integration testing
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm openhvf
.Op Fl hq
.Op Fl Fl vm Ar name
.Op Fl Fl project Ar dir
.Op Fl Fl emulate
.Ar command
.Op Ar argument ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
manages QEMU virtual machines running
.Ox ,
used to test software in a real
.Ox
environment from a Linux or Darwin development host.
It downloads installation images,
creates disk images,
and controls the VM lifecycle,
guest access,
and console automation.
.Pp
.Nm
is a development tool:
it is not installed by
.Ql make install
and is not part of any release package.
.Pp
.Nm
operates on a project:
a directory containing an
.Pa .openhvfrc
configuration file and an
.Pa .openhvf/
state directory,
created by the
.Cm init
command.
Unless
.Fl Fl project
is given,
the project root is auto-discovered by searching upward from the
current directory for an
.Pa .openhvfrc
file.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl Fl vm Ar name
Operate on the named VM.
The default is
.Dq default .
VM definitions live in
.Pa .openhvf/vms/ Ns Ar name Ns Pa .conf .
.It Fl Fl project Ar dir
Use
.Ar dir
as the project root instead of auto-discovering it.
.It Fl q , Fl Fl quiet
Suppress informational output.
.It Fl Fl emulate
Force TCG emulation instead of hardware acceleration,
for testing on aarch64 hosts.
.It Fl h , Fl Fl help
Display usage information.
.El
.Pp
The following commands are available:
.Bl -tag -width "expect script"
.It Cm init Op Ar dir
Initialize a project in
.Ar dir
(default: the current directory).
Creates the
.Pa .openhvfrc
project configuration,
the
.Pa .openhvf/
directory with
.Pa vms/
and
.Pa state/
subdirectories,
and a default VM configuration.
Idempotent:
does nothing if the project is already initialized.
.It Cm up
Ensure the VM is running.
Downloads the installation image,
creates the disk image,
and starts the VM as needed.
Idempotent.
.It Cm down
Stop the VM gracefully.
.It Cm destroy
Stop the VM and delete its disk image.
.It Cm start
Start the VM in the background.
.It Cm stop Op Fl f , Fl Fl force
Stop the VM.
With
.Fl f ,
terminate it forcefully.
.It Cm status
Show VM status as
.Ar key : value
lines,
including
.Ar ssh_port
and
.Ar console_port .
.It Cm ssh Op Ar command
Open an interactive SSH session to the VM as root,
or run
.Ar command
and exit with its exit code.
Authentication uses the SSH agent.
.It Cm console
Show how to connect to the VM serial console
.Pq via Xr telnet 1 .
.It Cm expect Ar script Op Ar argument ...
Run an
.Xr expect 1
script against the VM console.
.It Cm wait Op Fl Fl timeout Ns = Ns Ar seconds
Block until the VM accepts SSH connections
(default timeout: 120 seconds).
.It Cm image Cm download | list
Manage cached installation images.
.Cm list
shows cached images;
.Cm download Op Ar version
shows the cache path or download URL for
.Ar version
(default: 7.8).
Images are downloaded via the built-in proxy when the VM boots.
.It Cm disk Cm check | repair | info
Manage the VM disk image:
verify integrity,
repair errors
(the VM must be stopped),
or show image details.
.It Cm help
Display usage information.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width ".openhvf/vms/name.conf" -compact
.It Pa .openhvfrc
Project configuration:
.Ar cache_dir ,
.Ar state_dir ,
.Ar default_vm .
.It Pa .openhvf/vms/ Ns Ar name Ns Pa .conf
Per-VM configuration:
.Ar name , version , memory , disk_size , ssh_port , console_port .
.It Pa .openhvf/state/
Runtime state
.Pq PID files, sockets, disk images .
.It Pa ~/.cache/openhvf/
Default installation image cache.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Nm
exits with one of the following values:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds -offset indent -compact
.It 0
Success.
.It 1
General error.
.It 2
Invalid arguments.
.It 3
Configuration error, or not in an
.Nm
project.
.It 4
VM not found.
.It 5
VM is running.
.It 6
VM is not running.
.It 7
Timeout waiting for the VM.
.It 8
SSH connection failed.
.It 9
Expect script failed.
.It 10
Image download failed.
.El
.Pp
The
.Cm ssh
command with a
.Ar command
argument exits with the remote command's exit code.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Initialize a project and boot the default VM:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ openhvf init
$ openhvf up
$ openhvf wait --timeout=300
.Ed
.Pp
Run a command in the VM:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ openhvf ssh "uname -a"
OpenBSD openbsd-default.my.domain 7.8 GENERIC arm64
.Ed
.Pp
Operate on a VM other than the default:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ openhvf --vm minimal up
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr expect 1 ,
.Xr ssh 1 ,
.Xr telnet 1
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
utility first appeared with
.Xr openhapd 8
in 2025.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Dick Olsson Aq Mt dick@aglim.se
